User entitlements workshop (#1615)
oktadeveloper/okta-blog: _source/_posts/2025-11-04-user-entitlements-workshop.md

You can define policies for users that automatically assign their entitlements when adding them to this integration app. While that's pretty nifty, this post focuses on building out the SCIM endpoints for entitlements, so I'll include links to resources that explain this feature in more detail at the end of the post. 

Press **< Back to application** to return to the SCIM Okta app.

### Syncing user entitlements

When you use an identity provider, you want that system to be the source of truth for managing the users' identities and access levels. You want to set the roles you defined for the Todo app onto users within Okta. That would be pretty sweet, right?

Since we last ran our user import with hardcoded roles, let's ensure we've synchronized everything from the starting state of the application before we start managing with Okta. 

Within the SCIM application tab, navigate to **Import** and press the **Import Now** button. Okta scans the users in the todo app, but since there are no new users, there's no confirmation process. The user scan synced the existing users and the roles! 

> Navigate to **Assignments**. Each user has a vertical 3-dot menu icon to display a context menu allowing you to **Edit user assignment**, **View entitlements**, and **Unassign**. Find "Trinity" and **View entitlements** on them. A panel shows you Trinity's role pre-assigned in the Todo app. 🎉 Exit the side panel by clicking outside the side panel.

Reviewer: they moved the entitlements settings to be under "view access details"
```suggestion
Navigate to **Assignments**. Each user has a vertical 3-dot menu icon to display a context menu allowing you to **Edit user assignment**, **View access details**, and **Unassign**. Find "Trinity" and **View access details** on them. A panel shows you Trinity's role pre-assigned in the Todo app. 🎉 Exit the side panel by clicking outside the side panel.
```
<img width="809" height="191" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/d74353e2-cb62-492d-afe5-4f4781265d15" />

> Let's assign a new role to "Somnus" using Okta.  Open the context menu for "Somnus" and **View entitlements**. Press the **Edit** button. You'll see a page titled **Edit entitlements**. Press the **Customize entitlements** button. You'll see a warning followed by a section called **Custom Entitlements**.

Reviewer: UI changed this up  a little. 
<img width="596" height="303" alt="image" src="https://github.com/user-attachments/assets/545f0a4b-02dd-4ca8-b11c-85dfaf1c22b5" />

```suggestion
Let's assign a new role to "Somnus" using Okta.  Open the context menu for "Somnus" and **View access details**. Press the **Edit access** button. You'll see a page titled **Edit access**. Press the **Customize entitlements** button. You'll see a section called **Custom Entitlements**
```
I get no warning in an integrator account.
